---
title: 'My experiences as a coding bootcamp graduate'
subtitle: 'From working as a mailman into becoming developer in 3 months. Is this possible? And what to do afterwards?'
date: '02.05.2023'
---

As a child, I was captivated by technology. My love for gaming started with consoles like Game Boy and Super Nintendo, then progressed to N64, PlayStation, and PSP. But what really fascinated me was working with computers. The ability to create something out of nothing was incredibly exciting. I explored a variety of software products and even tinkered with the operating system of my computer.

Naturally, I dreamed of a career in the tech industry. However, as life unfolded, my path took a different turn, and my passion for technology became a cherished hobby instead.

## The Myth

> If you really want to go into this industry you need to have extraordinary skills in maths or be extremely creative. You are neither of those.

That, or something along those lines was one of the main things i heard from my teachers or circle of acquaintances. One of the main myths I encountered about the tech industry was that you needed extraordinary skills in math or creativity to succeed.
However, this is completely untrue. As a normal web developer, problem-solving skills and the ability to constantly learn are the main requirements, along with some out-of-the-box thinking for certain problems. Most of my colleagues in my bootcamp had similar misconceptions, but it is important to realize that being a programmer is not limited to lone wolves working in a dark room with a lot of screens in front of them.

## The Job market

> According to the source, around 136,000 vacancies were to be filled in 2022 and 96,000 in 2021. And thats Germany alone.

We live in a strange time i have to admit.The job market for developers is currently in high demand,
but most companies are looking for senior developers. This is a problem for junior developers like myself, but it is also an issue for companies in the long run. Without training juniors to become senior developers, there will be a shortage of skilled employees in the future. While some companies are willing to invest in new programmers, others are not. This is something that needs to change, but luckily there are still many employers who have a different mindset, especially start-ups. It is important to note that the job search can be a numbers game, and it may take many applications to secure a position.

## Are bootcamps worth the money?

I can only speak about myself and my experiences, but in my opinion it is definitely worth the money. It is unbelievable how much you can learn in such short period of time. Especially when the curriculum is designed in a good way.
My bootcamp started on the 9th of January 2023, a few weeks after Next.js 13 came out. It was fascinating to see, how fast technology changes and how fast you have to adapt to these changes. A lot of stuff changed for Next 12 to Next 13, and the bootcamp i attended only teaches state of the art technology. So a few of features, like the app directory where experimental and needed a lot of research. Not only form the attendee of the bootcamp, but also from the instructors themselves. This was interesting to see and gave a fantastic example of the future.
We learned a lot about Node.js, React, Next.js and PostgreSQl. All those things were taught in such a deep level, that, if i think about the past months, i don't even understand how it is possible to go from knowing absolutely nothing, to create a full stack web app all together with user registration, authentication, complex api routes and top notch front end. Without the bootcamp, most of the stuff i just listed would be hard to grab and even harder implement in a real life scenario.

### So.. Yes! It is absolutely worth it!
