---
title: 'My experiences as a coding bootcamp graduate'
subtitle: 'From working as a mailman into becoming developer in 3 months. Is this possible? And what to do afterwards?'
date: '02.05.2023'
---

As a child, I was captivated by technology. My love for gaming started with consoles like Game Boy and Super Nintendo, then progressed to N64, PlayStation, and PSP. But what really fascinated me was working with computers. The ability to create something out of nothing was incredibly exciting. I explored a variety of software products and even tinkered with the operating system of my computer.

Naturally, I dreamed of a career in the tech industry. However, as life unfolded, my path took a different turn, and my passion for technology became a cherished hobby instead.

## The Myth

> If you really want to go into this industry you need to have extraordinary skills in maths or be extremely creative. You are neither of those.

That, or something along those lines was one of the main things i heard from my teachers or family members. There were always this myth, that programmers are lone wolves, and sit in a dark room with a lot of screens in front of them and look through moving numbers.
Also, the movie industry in my youth gave the same impression.
I alway thought that i would never fit in this profile. Surprise surprise, obviously this is absolutely wrong.
Nowadays when i talk to colleagues out of my bootcamp i realize that most of them had the same impression.

> According to the source, around 136,000 vacancies were to be filled in 2022 and 96,000 in 2021. And thats Germany alone.
